everybody a welcoming dinner the lion
plays The Binding of Isaac after birth
plus we're working our way through the
challenges uh you thanks to you you you
not you have a heart I don't even
remember have a heart will probably
finish the read challenges and then move
on to doing a couple of random runs just
to again palate cleanse a little bit so
have a heart starts you with one heart
and many empty containers which is very
bad because we cannot grab spirit hearts
despite getting Book of Revelations is
our first item here so just don't shoot
a bomb at me please thank you we do have
charm of the vampires so basically we
just need to kill some enemies and after
we kill some enemies we'll probably be
pretty safe here I mean it's not a very
high power start to a run starting with
charm of the vampire is worth slightly
more than zero but I would just like to
see like a single little heart drop
crazy little hood red drop let's try it
again crazy little red hog drop I took
it a good a good two critical to coudn't
this thing called hearts I just don't
start with it this thing count hearts
various other words would go here so get
ready crazy little placeholder song we
actually did get some HP back in the
middle there so um oh dude this would be
an ideal black market because we could
give up all these heart containers we're
never gonna use anyway but I digress cuz
apparently no longer relevant uh we have
nine cents we can buy red hearts really
this seems like one where we want to get
a deal with the devil though get a deal
with the devil trade HP then all of a
sudden all of a sudden Book of
Revelations can actually work we might
as well use Book of Revelations and the
idea is that we'll fight a boss that
gives us a guaranteed cube of meats
obviously the spirit heart is not worth
quite as much as I would like but
that worked and I'm kind of amazed I
don't think there's any other way we
could make this happen we need like a
nun converter like the reverter from the
shop which is an item that doesn't exist
but you know I got you thinking either
way we're just gonna move along as long
as we can keep our red heart side
there's pretty much no chance to lose
this run I'll spend two keys going to
this room why not I want that and then
we'll reroll the rest cuz we can't use
them and oddly enough one of the few
times I'm gonna be happy to re-roll a
spirit heart into a single penny this GU
poon you look I don't really have any
particular reverence for the song crazy
little thing called love I think it's a
bad song in particular not my favorite
see what we got in here Wooden Nickel
and The MITRE there's something like
uniquely hilarious about this because we
can't actually use spirit arts but we
can use red hearts but I took it anyway
so I get who's laughing now I would like
a better spacebar item please well for
two cents I could buy five cents wait
for five cents I could buy two cents I
had a backwards I don't think we want to
do that let's try the card it's hanging
to man and apart from that we'll just
move along so I guess we can't buy red
hearts from the shop earlier in this run
you may remember I erroneously said I'll
just buy some spirit hearts from the
shop know I pressed hanged man to try to
get out of that bucket of syrup as
quickly as possible
no such luck dude although it might be a
little bit on the not that not as zany
side for y'all I am thinking that I'll
probably never use Book of Revelations
again unless we can get spirit hearts
out of it and the reason for that is
quite simply one Cuba meat is kind of
like the optimum amount
what do you factor in the opportunity
cost of what we would what we would have
to spend to get more cubes of me which
is missing whatever our other bosses are
gonna give us the worst upgrade is level
one now there goes our deal with that
chance mostly the worst upgrade is level
one
level two you know we could have gotten
to tears upgrade we could have gotten a
damage upgrade instead instead we turn
our familiar into our sorry our orbital
into something that shoots a little bit
not valuable like in the least well this
is very scary didn't really want to go
to the other double key room I just
figured I'd spent enough keys on this
run just give me like HP at before is
good we might actually die on this one
has me a little bit surprised mind you
it might be like this super wrong run to
try to be using an orbital to deal
damage rarely does that stop me though
just need to get a little bit of HP back
nothing now we'll say on a run like this
might be tempted to get a third or
fourth level cube of meat which requires
by necessity us going through level two
unfortunately
why would I appreciate that well because
we wouldn't have to walk into enemies to
kill them and if it triggers lifesteal
even better there we go so I think that
there's more of a gimmick to this run
than I originally thought you don't just
start with no HP no HP drops you have to
get all of your HP buy a life steal or
by HP upgrades I suppose would also be
functional this could be a little bit on
the trickier side what we should be
shooting for then is an opportunity to
like deal as much damage as possible
like hey it is in a way here's the like
the ultimate thing that kind of sucks
about almost all these challenges in the
end most of the challenge strategies
boiled down to get a good rhyme like I
don't want to pull back the veil but
that's pretty much how Isaac works I
don't think it's emblematic of Isaac
being a bad game at all
I think it's just oh dude it'll totally
take restock I think it's more just like
sure justice could have been HP I
thought but apparently not um let's try
it again
son card that's more along the lines of
what we're looking for I think it's more
just that challenges for all the
gimmicks the gimmicks represent kind of
like a novel starting position
however in Isaac if you get a great run
like if you get a high damage in
particular you're probably gonna ball
out right so no challenge can really
stop that the son card there was ten out
of ten that was an ideal pickup take two
and call me in the morning now all I
want to do is stay like as far away from
this guy as Earth will allow me to our
speed is pretty good so I'm less worried
about that than I would otherwise be
just lay in the shot get your
hundred-percent deal with the devil and
then like oh dude he might just give me
pennies but still little Chad this could
still be good don't give up hope all
right it's stunk hugely that's okay
I really think I mean it goes to mom's
heart so on the womb we might start to
have some issues here in terms of our
amount of HP but the son card is gonna
buy us an awful lot of time The MITRE is
making me laugh here maybe the deals
with the devil are designed to not give
you I mean it's it's pretty rich to just
go on one sample size but maybe they're
designed to not give you red hard deals
cuz that would make things maybe a
little too easy I'm fine with red chess
deals I just like you know one of them
to have Guppies head in it that's pretty
much the optimum outcome for us there
we've already sort of compromised our
deal with the devil chance here so I
think he's paying out with with money
which means we're pretty much completely
incapable of turning that into HP
because the shop no longer has any red
hearts but okay there's a big get for us
djaro flies is actually like 10 out of
10 I think we're gonna be fine I mean
this again there's like six challenges I
even remember the name of and some of
them might be like onl you think you've
got early onset dementia or something
like that
I feel relatively confident in the
health of my brain mental health I'm
like 75 percent confident I think I got
an okay kind of like what's the word I'm
looking for Constitution I think I got
our okay Constitution but in terms of
like the actual biological health of my
brain I think it's holding it together
for the most part sometimes people say
like NL how can you not remember that
that happened yesterday my dude you see
how many videos go up on this channel on
a daily basis it's absurd I don't
remember you know what I said in an
Isaac video yesterday most of the time
unless the Isaac video that went up
yesterday was recorded like two minutes
before the one that went up just now you
know I got I'm keeping a lot of
information in the brain here not least
of which is like oh how do you you know
when you use a weak pointer versus a
shared pointer and you're like I don't
know the correct answer is just use C
sharp instead anyway
we got two keys it's pop them in here we
should do this close to the bomb that we
can get there but I just don't care
about that head of the keepers fine
guppies head is awesome and bomb bag is
great as well but honestly I think I'm
gonna stick with jar of flies no I
wouldn't that sleep in this jar it flies
so toss me yeah that's a reference to
the song that comes on after bent on
matchbox twenty's 2001 album that I've
forgotten the name of kind of a deep cut
and honestly deep cut b-side reference
in this case does not imply good
reference
it's a fundamental error on my part um
so just blow these guys up this will
probably take care of the riffraff know
they're all one hit away and we should
kill the Flies and then DoubleTap the
poop and that'll take care of the
silkworms maybe I don't know maybe maybe
not doesn't really matter
skinny odd mushroom you might think I'm
disappointed quite the opposite is ten
out of ten
allows us to fire faster now if we could
actually become guppy or at least get
the Mulligan it's kind of a big ass but
if we could we can make that happen I
would be stoked Jarrah flies still fine
you might think that it's kind of like
compromises its existence there was like
by Isaac standards there's a big debate
in the community way back in the day is
like is skinny odd mushroom good or bad
I've come down like firmly on the side
of this is good technology to kind of
bad but but skinny odd mushroom double
our rate of fire have our damage more
than double our rate of fire once we get
at before a popping oh that's kind of
like moving the goalposts I suppose
absolutely so we didn't get hit and I
was hoping against hope that that would
lead to us getting a deal with the devil
that arguably we didn't really deserve
that's okay this I think is actually a
deceptively hard challenge like I don't
know how I fared on this one back in the
day was that a clandestine Michael
Faraday reference no he's not even my
favorite physicists we're talking andre
on pair or bust dude of Maxwell's
equations it is the longest and
strangest of all hook me up but I think
there's a couple of cards that break the
game the amperes isn't one of them but
the Sun is
try to come back to this cursed room if
necessary or if we take damage like ever
and then that'll be that but yeah I
don't know how we fared on this one back
in the day but it's not super easy if we
didn't have that son card we would be in
a much much trickier spot now mind you
at this point we do have the son card so
it seems like we'll probably just waltz
our way to victory hopefully that does
end up being the case highly not worth
it unless we get a key back so we can go
to the shop but this is where you give
us an I don't even think nine lives is
something we should take unless it
guarantees guppy I don't think the
Empress card is worth it for this cost
either well yeah okay we're still moving
on here we just it would have been great
to get a black market on the on that
crawlspace we got earlier that would
have given us like probably the easiest
finish to this challenge I could imagine
if we got decent shop items traded our
HP away we're able to hold spirit hearts
the spirit arts would give us the
ability to almost certainly get a deal
with the devil those deals with the
devil presumably you know lead to us
being stacked right now we're still fine
really it's it's amazing what one son
card did for us on this run but if that
had been a black market instead of a
crawlspace we'd be like even better that
was way too much effort to get three
cents for a bomb as like a bad trade end
it was annoying to hook up in the first
place but I think we more or less have
this one under control not a quick one
though a one we want to be a little bit
more careful on and the other thing is
like you might still be a little bit
displeased about the fact that we gave
up on possibly getting a fourth level
meat boy here which would have been nice
as well but I don't know I'm kinda I
think it's a common opinion among people
who've played Isaac for a long long time
I kind of think Cuba meets overrated
like third level meat boy third level
Vantage girl and and fourth level as
well not as good as you would originally
think I think
give me a health downgrade it would
actually be amazing speed down
irrelevant more or less lock up lovely
but not strictly what we're looking for
so I think we're down to the depths -
this is our boss rush floor I could be
persuaded what I really want to see
though especially with restock is a key
and then a shop with no greed in it
because that could allow us to to work
our way over to hive minds
oh good just what we're looking for more
HP if we can get hive mind all of a
sudden like all of our run like the
whole everything of it is tied up a
little bit stronger BFF would also be
pretty swell but we'd like notice we're
not even talking about like our HP
anymore
mostly because we're actually able to
kill things relatively quickly now and
as a result we don't have to worry as
much about you know if we lose one half
heart it could take us you know twelve
enemies to get it back kind of rocking
it right now we do still have an item
room to get to as well so I might have
actually skipped some now that I think
about it I maybe I do Everly onset
dementia I don't know probably not
I think it's you don't understand like
multitasking it's harder than you think
everybody goes NL you missed this you
missed this you missed this I'm not
trying to act like I have an infallible
brain or anything like that but there's
a reason they tell you not to not to
text and drive you know it's a diverts
your focus admittedly part of it is that
you're not looking at the road but part
of it is instead of thinking about oh
well there's this weirdo on the other
Lane what are they trying to do they
might come over into my lane so I got a
set up like this bla bla bla and you
know drive a little defensively you're
like um she texted me a winking emoji
with an eggplant after it what does that
mean I got to go to urban dictionary
look it up see what that means in
today's day and age right it diverts
your focus it distracts you for some
people at least I also think sometimes
when I'm recording I'm more focused
because I have like I have skin in the
game you know what I mean maybe not
because it's a weird expression to use
there what I mean by that is you know
that people are gonna be watching the
content so at some point that they're
gonna judge it be like I know why'd you
take damage on this room I mean I sure
hope someone got fired for that gaffe
sometimes it's you know little the finer
points started to slip up like
forgetting to go to the item room
particularly on challenge runs cuz not
all or even most of the challenge runs
even have item rooms so it's sort of a
variable to begin with so we are second
a lot of HP here
I can't necessarily recommend that you
do this for yourself but I'm gonna try
speed ups I can see forever well at
least we can get out for free that gives
us some more plays here experimental
treatment
damage down luck up speed down that's a
bad draw on experimental treatment
I think everyone's probably well aware
of that fact not bad enough to be scary
and it did take us to the point where
we're one away from spun but bad enough
to be at least mildly annoying we should
actually I still think the best use of
our bombs they're good bombs Brandt but
we could use them to oh it's tears
upgrade I think we don't need that as
much as we need I mean that could work
oh there you go as much as we need to
get spun basically which gave us a three
damage upgrade and a speed upgrade and
then tell appeals we're still looking
for the shop though knock that out and
you know maybe Telep Hills is like a
blessing in disguise will get another
tell appeals use that to teleport out of
boss rush with two guppy items how do we
get to guppy items out of one boss rush
I don't know there's gonna have to be
like a diplopia involved at some point I
haven't really thought that far ahead
but like Bank it cuz it's definitely
happening we got our long-lost Empress
card back as well now I know I've said
this like six times over the course of
this episode but this one should be in
the books now look at how many syringes
we got sticking out of our arms that's
collateral damage baby you really leave
it all on the line in this business
stay away thank you alright
good use of a bomb sure why not why not
take an item that is one of the few
items that could completely ruin my
chances of success pay to play is not
worth much would I rather pay to play or
a reroll
like the reroll from pay to play is one
item in seven cents we got three cents
to work for everything so that's good
I don't think car battery does it for us
mom's purse I don't think is worth the
squeeze here
mom's key is a little late to be useful
I think a box of friends is not good
enough champion belt is blank card
Empress not to be honest with you I do
like blank card
but I kind of prefer Jarrah flies right
now devil card now we just worked
towards maybe getting a Sun card tell
you what let's use our moon card kill
mom take an item from boss rush moon
card out grab the emperor card use it on
the first floor give ourselves a chance
to deal with it like I see the whole run
laid out in front of me right now we do
have a chance and not a terrible chance
of the deal with the devil here as long
as we don't get hit against mom highly
questionable oh okay I hit myself
despite I backed up and then I was like
wait I gotta get closer to actually lay
in this shot turns out joke's on me what
is under what is that red that's buddy
in a box right now it's like a weird
Tetris block or something no no thank
you no thank you
that time will come we're gonna do our
fair share of delirium runs no question
so these are kind of garbage items I'm
gonna take rainbow baby because it's
free but sure wait wait what is also
okay here so we're trying to get I mean
a son card would be ten out of ten an
emperor car is like an AIDS
judgment let's pop it I was kind of
hoping for demon judgment that might be
a stupid ask but you can tell what's
coming there mmm and that's it so I'll
start by blowing up you don't really
want to give you money I'd rather go for
another card well sorry to do this
matchstick we just want the emperor card
no not the Empress 5hp
doesn't make me the happiest boy at 6 hp
by the way common it's a classic
northernlion problem try for a second
secret room that I guess if it had red
hearts would actually be full of single
pennies if that were the case no all
right let's uh let's escape then I think
it is important that we use the emperor
card right away because it gives us this
deal with the devil chance if we don't
get hit which is I mean questionable but
is there anything I only really want to
use the emperor card to get through
rooms that are too annoying to do
normally because we could get drops or
HP back in the interim period so I'm
like definitely not gonna do a big room
I could hit myself it is valid we're at
this point maybe we should just go for
an era no I hate that room
easiest decision of my life okay lose
Bob's brain and then pop jar of flies
and then let jar of flies do like all of
your dirty work for you
Oh and Epiphone is killing it
greatest shot in my life we got a deal
with the angel we also got pentagram
which is very good loud pretty good
apparently and we get Holy Light which
is great
let's fight the angel statue for
effectively no reason but a Holy Light
at before ax and a really strong rate of
fire to begin with is great is that
panic power the more you get hit the
more damage you do over the course of a
floor though wait what is exactly the
same as bloody lust if that's the case
so I'm assuming that I mean correct here
all right we got five-and-a-half HP we
still lost HP on that floor probably
because we fought a boss we had no
reason to fight fair enough a demon
judgment is still we should just kill it
like there's no reason for us to fight
it and we should never use our orbital
our tears are potent you know we're
gonna have a way above average rate of
fire with like probably average damage
and a great tear effect a Holy Light
Plus great rate of fire is like it's up
there so just coast this one to the
finish nice length of a challenge and
and a fun one nonetheless I got to talk
about the health of my brain my favorite
Backstreet Boys song show you the health
of my brain I think this is the kind of
challenge that it does depend like your
ability to beat it to some extent
depends on the quality or the kind of
run you get cuz all runs obviously
depend on the quality of the items you
get but like if you had a super glass
cannon like no lifesteal ever no ability
to kill enemies I guess to activate
charm of the vampire you're done
and things like bloody penny are not
gonna do it for you but we just got like
a nice little menagerie of items that
manage to have make this happen and did
you call it a menagerie just to use the
word menagerie yes I did I think it's a
great word
it's no secret many of the best words in
English are actually just French but I
don't even know how to use menagerie in
like a context that's that uses the
original definition of the word like I
can't believe it's not butter
that's right it's margarine menagerie
that's it's not really a good joke
honestly in the whole scheme of things
but and we never lost any hard
containers over the course of this run
which is not bragging I mean we took
damage we just never lost any heart
containers which would have been very
nice you know we would have had spirit
hearts that could have given us deals
with the devil this is the
quintessential example of like too much
of a good thing can be a bad thing
we're out I never want to see this one
again what do we get for it two new
pills oh that's right we're in the pill
section of the game now for now thanks
for watching hope you guys have enjoyed
the episode if you did click the like
button outside a great deal of course
subscribe you wanna see more in the
future for now thanks for watching and I
will see you next time